Ann!
Shhh!
He’s back.
Silas.
Yes.
Yes.
Be kind.
I know. It’s just that—
You did.
I know, but—
Who else will harbor him?
He thinks he ought to earn a little pay.
Just a little. Enough at least to buy tobacco, so he won’t have to beg and be beholden. It doesn’t have to be much.
I don’t think he expects that this time.
Shhh! Not so loud. He’ll hear you.
Not now. He’s worn out.
Asleep by the stove.
When I came up from Rowe’s I found him here, huddled against the barn-door. He was a miserable sight. It scared me. Don’t smile like that—I didn’t recognize him. I wasn’t looking for him, and he’s changed. Wait till you see.
He didn’t say. I practically dragged him to the house, gave him tea and tried to make him smoke. I tried to make him talk about his travels, but nothing would do—he just kept nodding off.
No.
I’ve seen him drunk. This was different.
Not much.
Hardly a word.
Ann!
Of course he did. What would you have him say? Surely you wouldn’t grudge the poor old man some humble way to save his self-respect.
He added, if you really care to know, he meant to clear the upper pasture.
Ann, I wish you could have heard the way he jumbled everything. It shook me up. I stopped to look two or three times to see if he was talking in his sleep. He ran on and on about Harold Wilson—you remember Harold? The boy you had haying about four years ago?
He’s finished school and now he’s teaching in some college somewhere.
Silas says you’ll have to have him back.
He says the two of them will make a fine team for work—says they’ll lay this farm smooth! The way he mixed that in with other things … he seemed so confused.
He liked young Wilson, I guess.
Well, those days trouble Silas like a dream.
Harold’s young college-boy assurance, you know, it got under his skin. After so many years, he still keeps finding good arguments he might have used.
It’s more than that.
He asked me what I thought of Harold’s saying he studied Latin like the violin because he liked it.
He said he couldn’t make the boy believe he could find water with a hazel prong—said that proved how much good school had ever done him. He thinks if he could have one more chance to teach him how to build a load of hay—
He thinks if he could teach him that, he’d be some good perhaps to someone in the world—says he hates to see a boy the fool of books. He’s so concerned for other folk, and nothing to look backward to with pride.
His whole life like that. Then, and now, and never any different. Ann, I think … I think he’s come home to die. You needn’t be afraid he’ll leave you this time.
Yes. What else but home?
Of course he’s nothing to us, any more than the old hound that came a stranger to us out of the woods, all broken and worn out from the trail. I think home is the place where, when you have to go there, they have to take you in.
He never told us that.
His brother ought to help, of course. I’ll talk to him if we can’t keep things going.
And he might be willing to—he may be better than appearances. But have some pity on Silas. Do you think if he had any pride in claiming kin or anything he looked for from his brother, he’d keep so still about him all this time?
I can tell you. Silas is what he is—we wouldn’t mind him—but he’s just the kind that kinsfolk can’t abide. He never did anything so very bad. And he don’t know why he isn’t quite as good as anyone else. He can’t be made ashamed to please his brother, worthless though he is. He’s got that much pride.
No, but it hurt my heart tonight the way he lay and rolled his old head on that sharp-edged chair-back.
No. Go and see what you can do—would you?
I made the bed up for him there tonight. You’ll be surprised—how much he’s broken. His working days are done, I think.
I haven’t been.
Go, look—see for yourself. But, Chan,  Please remember how it is. He’s come to help you ditch the meadow. He has a plan. You mustn’t laugh at him.
He may not speak of it, and then he may.
No. Not yet. I’ll sit here a while and see if that small sailing cloud will hit or miss the moon.
Ann?