 Hi! lambs! avoid yon fountain. Have ye not eyes to see Cometas, him who filched a pipe but two days back from me?
 'Twas Lycon's gift, your highness. But pray, Cometas, say, What is that skin wherewith thou saidst that Lacon walked away? Why, thy lord's self had ne'er a skin whereon his limbs to lay.
 Did Lacon, did Calaethis' son purloin a goatskin? No, By Pan that haunts the sea-beach! Lad, if I served thee so, Crazed may I drop from yon hill-top to Crathis' stream below!
 Be Daphnis' woes my portion, should that my credence win! Still, if thou list to stake a kid--that surely were no sin-- Come on, I'll sing it out with thee--until thou givest in.
 Fox! were that fair for either? At shearing who'd prefer Horsehair to wool? or when the goat stood handy, suffer her To nurse her firstling, and himself go milk a blatant cur?
 Why be so hot? Art thou on fire? First prythee take thy seat 'Neath this wild woodland olive thy tones will sound more sweet. Here falls a cold rill drop by drop, and green grass-blades uprear Their heads, and fallen leaves are thick, and locusts prattle here.
 When learned I from thy practice or thy preaching aught that's right, Thou puppet, thou misshapen lump of ugliness and spite?
 Well, hunchback, shallow be thy grave as was thy judgment then! But hither, hither! Thou'lt not dip in herdsman's lore again.
 Come hither, and tread on lambswool that is soft as any dream Still more unsavoury than thyself to me thy goatskins seem. Here will I plant a bowl of milk, our ladies' grace to win; And one, as huge, beside it, sweet olive-oil therein.
 Well! there essay thy woodcraft thence fight me, never budge From thine own oak; e'en have thy way. But who shall be our judge? Oh, if Lycopas with his kine should chance this way to trudge!
 We'll hail him.
 Friend, 'twill not take thee long We're striving which is master, we twain, in woodland song And thou, my good friend Morson, ne'er look with favouring eyes On me; nor yet to yonder lad be fain to judge the prize.
 And who asked thee, thou naughty knave, to whom belonged these flocks, Sibyrtas, or (it might be) me? Eh, thou'rt a chatter-box!
 Come sing, if singing's in thee--and may our friend get back To town alive! Heaven help us, lad, how thy tongue doth clack!
 Go to! nigh twenty baskets doth Lacon fill with cheese Hath time to woo a sweetheart too upon the blossomed leas.
 Me too a darling smooth of face notes as I tend my flocks How maddeningly o'er that fair neck ripple those shining locks!
 Tho' acorns' cups are fair, their taste is bitterness, and still I'll choose, for honeysweet are they, the apples of the hill.
 Pooh! a soft fleece, to make a coat, I'll give the day I shear My brindled ewe--(no hand but mine shall touch it)--to my dear.
 Run, (will ye?) Ball and Dogstar, down from that oak tree, run And feed where Spot is feeding, and catch the morning sun.
 I have a dog who throttles wolves he loves the sheep, and they Love him I'll give him to my dear, to keep wild beasts at bay.
 Ye crickets, mark how nettled our friend the goatherd is! I ween, ye cost the reapers pangs as acute as his.
 I hate to see the beetles that come warping on the wind. And climb Philondas' trees, and leave never a fig behind.
 That I've forgot--but I have not, how once Eumares tied You to that selfsame oak-trunk, and tanned your unclean hide.
 I think I'm stinging somebody, as Morson too perceives--Go to the river and dig up a clump of sowbread-leaves.
 For me may Sybaris' fountain flow, pure honey so that you, My fair, may dip your pitcher each morn in honey-dew.
 My sheep crop honeysuckle bloom, while all around them blows In clusters rich the jasmine, as brave as any rose.
 I love my love, and hugely for, when I gave my flute, I was rewarded with a kiss, a loving one to boot.