Did you hear?
You didn’t?
Outside.  They’re building barricades.
Here.  On our street.
An hour at least.
He’s gone.  He knew you’d try to stop him, so he left as soon as it started.  I saw him go.
What could you have done?
Are you afraid?
There they are again!  On the corner! [They stare out into the darkness, holding each other.  The blows of an axe join in the clamor.] It sounds so cheerful, so resonant, like in a forest or a river when you’re mending a boat or building a dam.  Cheerful, harmonious work.
I knew you would.
Of course.
And the children?
And I?  Can I?
Something like this happens once in what—a hundred years?  A thousand?  Do you really expect me to stay here and change diapers?
I’m not afraid.
This is bigger than the children.
What if they do die?  If it’s for the cause?
That was before.
The same thing that’s come over you.  I can see the future.
Yes! Don’t be angry.  Please. But tonight … when the sounds began … when the hammers and the axes began to fall … you were still asleep … and I suddenly understood that my husband, my children—all these things are temporary.... I love you very much … [She clasps his hand again.] … but can’t you hear how they are hammering out there?!  They are pounding away, and something seems to be falling, breaking apart, some kind of wall seems to be coming down—the earth is changing—and it is so spacious and wide and free!  It’s night now, but it seems to me the sun is shining!  I’m thirty years old and already I’m like an old woman, I know it, you can see it in my face.  And yet … tonight I feel like I’m only seventeen, and that I’ve fallen in love for the first time—a great, boundless love that lights up the sky!
They’re pounding, and it sounds to me like music, like singing of which I’ve always dreamt—all my life—and I didn’t know who it was that I loved with such a boundless love, which made me feel like crying and laughing and singing!  This is freedom!  Don’t deny me my place—let me die with those who are working out there, who are calling in the future so bravely and rousing the dead past from its grave!
What?
I don’t know you, either!  Are you a human being, too?  How strange … how beautiful it is—two human beings!
Wait, I’ll give you something to eat.  You should eat first.  A few more minutes won’t make any difference.  See how sensible I am.  I’ll come tomorrow.  I’ll give the children away and find you.
Yes, comrade.
Why don't you eat?
No, I was only thinking of our life before. How incomprehensible it seems!  It’s like waking from a long dream. Is this really the place where we lived?
And they were our children.
We made love.
How we sweated over those bills!
And here, beyond this wall, your father died.
Well, go!
You’ll wake them up.
Will you take your gun?
It’s behind the stove.
Will you remember me?
How can you be sure?  Everything will be different now.
And if you die?
Yes 'till we meet again!